[All content in grey text are guides for building your document and should be removed. Content that is kept to be used must be updated to black text]
Table of Contents (TOC) may be used to ease navigation throughout the document. During revision of the document the author is responsible for ensuring that the TOC is updated and free of errors. 

1.	PURPOSE
1.1	This section is required.
1.2	This purpose should briefly describe the overall intent of the process to be followed and the desired outputs as result of following the process.
1.3	Policy Statements Provisions
1.3.1	A policy statement is an organization-level document that prescribes acceptable methods or behaviors. Essentially, a policy is simply the way things are done within an organization. Policies are different from procedures and standard operating procedures, because policies are applicable to an entire organization and are primarily intended to set direction. Procedures and standard operating procedures, on the other hand, typically include very specific instructions used to accomplish defined tasks.
1.3.2	Well-written and designed policy statements are general enough that frequent revision is unnecessary. For instance, instead of referring to a specific individual in a policy statement, position titles could be used. Good policies are written in active voice and are easily understood. Short sentences, avoiding the use of jargon or acronyms, and using clear terms like 'must,' 'required,' 'recommended,' and 'should' make policy readable and easier to use.
1.3.3	States the general and specific content and provisions of the policy.  Authors are encouraged to state procedures separately unless they are tied to the policy itself or if stating them separately would significantly diminish clarity or ease in understanding.
1.3.4	A Policy Statement may be: 
(Select and follow those that most closely apply to your needs)
•	The rationale behind implementing a procedure which is followed globally, by divisions, business units and personnel within those areas. Describes the circumstances to which the policy responds, or the problem or conflict it resolves. States any customer requirements, if applicable, federal, state, or local statutes or regulations related to the policy.
•	A statement of commitment to a broad requirement
•	A principle which guides the administration, operation, and decision making of The Company. It may list who is responsible for certain aspects of the policy.
•	A statement on how to achieve the company’s goals and objectives with regard to a specific subject.
•	A high-level overall plan embracing the general goals and acceptable procedures of the company.
•	Basic principles by which the companies community is guided
•	A declared objective which the The Company Business unit seeks to achieve and preserve in the interest of the company. The objective may have a companywide affect.
•	A set of basic principles and associated guidelines, formulated and enforced by management to direct and limit its actions in pursuit of company-wide long-term goals. A plan or course of action intended to influence and determine decisions, actions, and other matters affecting the operations of the company.
Note on Procedures
Procedures (not the policy statement) should, in concrete terms, describe how the policy will be implemented or enforced, and details not included as part of the policy statement. Relevant procedures must be listed in the separate “Reference Documents” section, authors are expected to make them accessible via the EDMS. Only the most direct related procedure should be referenced in any document and any subsequent document references should be added to the next tier
2.	SCOPE 
2.1	This section is required.
2.2	The scope of this template is for all documents that are global in scope.
2.3	Scope of this document should broadly describe areas and locations affected by this process.
2.4	Identifies who and/or what is affected, such as “all divisions, departments and business units of The Company,” or “all regular employees”.
3.	RESPONSIBILITIES
3.1	This section is required.
3.2	Provide the Title of one or more offices, department, or group and position responsible for stewardship of the policy and/or maintaining its procedures.
3.3	The responsibilities may be presented in numbered format or in the table.  Please choose one style and remove the other.
EXAMPLE (3.4 – 3.9):
3.4	[Functional area] is responsible to ensure this work instruction is operational and effective at all locations.
3.5	Training and implementation of the process is the responsibility of the … (e.g., Department Manager, Supervisor, etc.)
3.6	Define further responsibilities as appropriate.
3.7	EQOS Work Instructions are to be approved by the following:
3.8	[Functional area] Manager
3.9	[Functional area] Business or Process Owner
Title/Functional Area	Definition of Responsibility
	
	
	
	
4.	REFERENCES
4.1	This section is optional.
4.2	Reference documents must be used in the context of the document.

Reference Documents:
Special Notes:

5.	DEFINITIONS
5.1	This section is optional.
5.2	Any The Company specific terms and abbreviations used in the document need to be defined in this section the format should note the term and the definition.
5.3	The Definitions may be presented in numbered format or in the table.  Please choose one style and remove the other.
EXAMPLE are shown in 5.2 – 5.5.
5.4	EDMS: Electronic Documentation Management System
5.5	WIP: Work In-process
5.6	EQOS: The Company Quality Operating System documents define Policy, Procedures and processes which are applicable to the Local Plant location.
5.7	Referenced Documents:  Documents that describes system at a higher level or forms, work instruction, or training materials that pertain to current document.
5.8	Authors may elect to use a table for the definitions or use the 5.2 – 5.6 format.
Term	Definition
EDMS	Electronic Documentation Management System
WIP	Work In-process
EQOS	The Company Quality Operating System documents define Policy, Procedures and processes which are applicable to the Local Plant location.
Referenced Documents	Documents that describes system at a higher level or forms, work instruction, or training materials that pertain to current document.
6.	      
6.1	This section is required.  
6.2	The section heading will change automatically by EtQ to match the document type.  Do not alter this section header.  (Notice:  when section header is selected, the background turns dark, indicating that the text is tied to custom properties of the document.)
6.3	Use of EQOS Template
6.3.1	Any new documents must utilize this format.
6.3.2	Any revisions of documents that are not in the current template will updated to utilize this format.
6.4	This section may be presented in numbered format or in the table.  Please choose one style and remove the other.
Step	Responsible	Task
6.5			
6.6			
6.7			
6.8			
6.9			

7.	ATTACHMENTS
7.1	This section is optional.
7.2	Add any work flow diagrams, process flow diagrams, or picture references as needed.
8.	REVISION HISTORY
New Rev	Description of Change	Reason for Change
Use EtQ assigned Rev	List what has changed	List why changes were made
		

